docs/source/components/messages.rst, before:

.. _components_messages:

Messages
========

Messages are sent between linked :ref:`Nodes`. The only way nodes communicate with each other is by sending messages from one to another. On the
table of contents (left side of the page) **all DepthAI messages are listed** under the :code:`Messages` entry. You can click on them to find out more.

.. rubric:: Creating a message in Script node

A DepthAI message can be created either on the device, by a node automatically or manually inside the :ref:`Script` node. In below example,
the code is taken from the :ref:`Script camera control` example, where :ref:`CameraControl` is created inside the Script node every second
and sent to the :ref:`ColorCamera`'s input (:code:`cam.inputControl`).

.. code-block:: python

   script = pipeline.create(dai.node.Script)
   script.setScript("""
      # Create a message
      ctrl = CameraControl()
      # Configure the message
      ctrl.setCaptureStill(True)
      # Send the message from the Script node
      node.io['out'].send(ctrl)
   """)

.. rubric:: Creating a message on a Host

It can also be created on a host computer and sent to the device via :ref:`XLinkIn` node. :ref:`RGB Camera Control`, :ref:`Video & MobilenetSSD`
and :ref:`Stereo Depth from host` code examples demonstrate this functionality perfectly. In the example below, we have removed all the code
that isn't relevant to showcase how a message can be created on the host and sent to the device via XLink.

.. code-block:: python

   # Create XLinkIn node and configure it
   xin = pipeline.create(dai.node.XLinkIn)
   xin.setStreamName("frameIn")
   xin.out.link(nn.input) # Connect it to NeuralNetwork's input

   with dai.Device(pipeline) as device:
      # Create input queue, which allows you to send messages to the device
      qIn = device.getInputQueue("frameIn")
      # Create ImgFrame message
      img = dai.ImgFrame()
      img.setData(frame)
      img.setWidth(300)
      img.setHeight(300)
      qIn.send(img) # Send the message to the device

.. rubric:: Creating a message on an external MCU

A message can also be created on an external MCU and sent to the device via :ref:`SPIIn` node. An demo of such functionality is the
`spi_in_landmark <https://github.com/luxonis/esp32-spi-message-demo/tree/main/spi_in_landmark>`__ example.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 0
   :hidden:
   :glob:

   messages/*

.. include::  ../includes/footer-short.rst

Commit message:

Update message docs page, added timestamp/sequenceNum info

docs/source/components/messages.rst, after:

.. _components_messages:

Messages
========

Messages are sent between linked :ref:`Nodes`. The only way nodes communicate with each other is by sending messages from one to another. On the
table of contents (left side of the page) **all DepthAI messages are listed** under the :code:`Messages`. You can click on them to find out more.

.. rubric:: Timestamps and sequence numbers

All messages have a timestamp and sequence number. The timestamp is the time when the message was created, and the sequence number is the order
in which the messages were created. Sequence numbers start at 0. Both of these values are used to synchronize messages (see :ref:`Message syncing`).


.. code-block:: python

   msg: dai.ImgFrame = queue.get() # Get message from the OutputQueue

   # You can get the timestamp and sequence number from the message

   # Timestamp synced with host time
   msg.getTimestamp()

   # Timestamp synced with device time (time from bootup)
   msg.getTimestampDevice()

   # Get the sequence number
   msg.getSequenceNum()

Host time is the time on the host computer (specifically it uses `std::chrono::steady_clock <https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/chrono/steady_clock>`__), and DepthAI library syncs host clock with the device. More information
can be found at :ref:`Host clock syncing`.

.. rubric:: Creating a message in Script node

A DepthAI message can be created either on the device, by a node automatically or manually inside the :ref:`Script` node. In below example,
the code is taken from the :ref:`Script camera control` example, where :ref:`CameraControl` is created inside the Script node every second
and sent to the :ref:`ColorCamera`'s input (:code:`cam.inputControl`).

.. code-block:: python

   script = pipeline.create(dai.node.Script)
   script.setScript("""
      # Create a message
      ctrl = CameraControl()
      # Configure the message
      ctrl.setCaptureStill(True)
      # Send the message from the Script node
      node.io['out'].send(ctrl)
   """)

.. rubric:: Creating a message on a Host

It can also be created on a host computer and sent to the device via :ref:`XLinkIn` node. :ref:`RGB Camera Control`, :ref:`Video & MobilenetSSD`
and :ref:`Stereo Depth from host` code examples demonstrate this functionality perfectly. In the example below, we have removed all the code
that isn't relevant to showcase how a message can be created on the host and sent to the device via XLink.

.. code-block:: python

   # Create XLinkIn node and configure it
   xin = pipeline.create(dai.node.XLinkIn)
   xin.setStreamName("frameIn")
   xin.out.link(nn.input) # Connect it to NeuralNetwork's input

   with dai.Device(pipeline) as device:
      # Create input queue, which allows you to send messages to the device
      qIn = device.getInputQueue("frameIn")
      # Create ImgFrame message
      img = dai.ImgFrame()
      img.setData(frame)
      img.setWidth(300)
      img.setHeight(300)
      qIn.send(img) # Send the message to the device


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 0
   :hidden:
   :glob:

   messages/*

.. include::  ../includes/footer-short.rst
