docs/source/samples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.rst, before:

Stereo Depth Video
==================

This example is an upgraded :ref:`Depth Preview`. It has higher resolution (720p), each frame can be shown
(mono left-right, rectified left-right, disparity and depth). There are 6 modes which you can select
inside the code:

#. `withDepth`: if you turn it off it will became :ref:`Mono Preview`, so it will show only the 2 mono cameras
#. `outputDepth`: if you turn it on it will show the depth
#. `lrcheck`: used for better occlusion handling. For more information `click here <https://docs.luxonis.com/en/latest/pages/faq/#left-right-check-depth-mode>`__
#. `extended`: suitable for short range objects. For more information `click here <https://docs.luxonis.com/en/latest/pages/faq/#extended-disparity-depth-mode>`__
#. `subpixel`: suitable for long range. For more information `click here <https://docs.luxonis.com/en/latest/pages/faq/#subpixel-disparity-depth-mode>`__

.. rubric:: Similar samples:

- :ref:`Depth Preview`
- :ref:`Stereo Depth from host`

Setup
#####

.. include::  /includes/install_from_pypi.rst

Source code
###########

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Python

        Also `available on GitHub <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-python/blob/main/examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.py>`__

        .. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.py
           :language: python
           :linenos:

    .. tab:: C++

        Also `available on GitHub <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-core/blob/main/examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.cpp>`__

        .. literalinclude:: ../../../../depthai-core/examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.cpp
           :language: cpp
           :linenos:

.. include::  /includes/footer-short.rst

Commit message:

Updating docs for stereo depth video

docs/source/samples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.rst, after:

Stereo Depth Video
==================

This example is an upgraded :ref:`Depth Preview`. It has higher resolution (720p), each frame can be shown
(mono left-right, rectified left-right, disparity and depth). There are 6 modes which you can select
inside the code:

#. `withDepth`: if you turn it off it will became :ref:`Mono Preview`, so it will show only the 2 mono cameras
#. `outputDepth`: if you turn it on it will show the depth
#. `lrcheck`: used for better occlusion handling. For more information `click here <https://docs.luxonis.com/en/latest/pages/faq/#left-right-check-depth-mode>`__
#. `extended`: suitable for short range objects. For more information `click here <https://docs.luxonis.com/en/latest/pages/faq/#extended-disparity-depth-mode>`__
#. `subpixel`: suitable for long range. For more information `click here <https://docs.luxonis.com/en/latest/pages/faq/#subpixel-disparity-depth-mode>`__

Stereo Alpha Param
##################

With `--alpha` you can select how much cropping will be done when rectifying the image, which is useful with Wide FOV OAK cameras. By default it's 0.0, which is cropping the most, so all points have valid disparity.
If you set it to 1.0, there will be no cropping, but the disparity will be valid only in the center and corners of the image (invalid at the sides).



.. rubric:: Similar samples:

- :ref:`Depth Preview`
- :ref:`Stereo Depth from host`

Setup
#####

.. include::  /includes/install_from_pypi.rst

Source code
###########

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Python

        Also `available on GitHub <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-python/blob/main/examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.py>`__

        .. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.py
           :language: python
           :linenos:

    .. tab:: C++

        Also `available on GitHub <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-core/blob/main/examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.cpp>`__

        .. literalinclude:: ../../../../depthai-core/examples/StereoDepth/stereo_depth_video.cpp
           :language: cpp
           :linenos:

.. include::  /includes/footer-short.rst
